src/main/asciidoc/class_types.adoc, before:

:_basedir: 
:_imagesdir: images/
:grid: cols
:metadata:

[[index]]

== JDO Class Typesanchor:JDO_Class_Types[]

JDO provides a means of transparent persistence of objects of user
defined classes. With JDO there are actually 3 types of classes.

* *Persistence Capable* classes are classes whose instances can be
persisted to a datastore. JDO provide the mechanism for persisting these
instances, and they are core to JDO. These classes need to be _enhanced_
according to a JDO Meta-Data specification before use within a JDO
environment.
* *Persistence Aware* classes are classes that manipulate Persistence
Capable instances through direct attribute manipulation. These classes
are typically enhanced with very minimal JDO Meta-Data. The enhancement
process performs very little changes to these classes.
* *Normal* classes are classes that aren't themselves persistable, and
have no knowledge of persistence either. These classes are totally
unchanged in JDO, and require no JDO Meta-Data whatsoever.

=== PersistenceCapableanchor:PersistenceCapable[]

Classes are defined as *PersistenceCapable* either by XML MetaData, like
this

....
<class name="MyClass">
    ...
</class>
....

or, in JDO2.1, using Annotations. Like this

....
@PersistenceCapable
public class MyClass
{
    ...
}
....

{empty} +


=== PersistenceAwareanchor:PersistenceAware[]

Classes are defined as *PersistenceAware* either by XML MetaData, like
this

....
<class name="MyClass" persistence-modifier="persistence-aware"/>
....

or, in JDO2.1, using Annotations. Like this

....
@PersistenceAware
public class MyClass
{
    ...
}
....

{empty} +

Commit message:

Add docs for JDOQLTyped and example for using SQL. Fix formatting to use "Java" to get colour syntaxing. Many other improvements

src/main/asciidoc/class_types.adoc, after:

:_basedir: 
:_imagesdir: images/
:grid: cols
:metadata:

[[index]]

== JDO Class Typesanchor:JDO_Class_Types[]

JDO provides a means of transparent persistence of objects of user defined classes. 
With JDO there are actually 3 types of classes.

* *Persistence Capable* classes are classes whose instances can be persisted to a datastore. 
JDO provide the mechanism for persisting these instances, and they are core to JDO. 
These classes need to be _enhanced_ according to a JDO Meta-Data specification before use within a JDO environment.
* *Persistence Aware* classes are classes that manipulate PersistenceCapable instances through direct attribute manipulation. 
These classes are typically enhanced with very minimal JDO Meta-Data. 
The enhancement process performs very little changes to these classes.
* *Normal* classes are classes that aren't themselves persistable, and have no knowledge of persistence either. 
These classes are totally unchanged in JDO, and require no JDO Meta-Data whatsoever.


[[PersistenceCapable]]
=== PersistenceCapable

Classes are defined as *PersistenceCapable*, either by XML MetaData, like this

[source,xml]
....
<class name="MyClass">
    ...
</class>
....

or using Annotations, like this

[source,java]
....
@PersistenceCapable
public class MyClass
{
    ...
}
....

{empty} +


[[PersistenceAware]]
=== PersistenceAware

Classes are defined as *PersistenceAware* either by XML MetaData, like this

[source,xml]
....
<class name="MyClass" persistence-modifier="persistence-aware"/>
....

or using Annotations, like this

[source,java]
....
@PersistenceAware
public class MyClass
{
    ...
}
....

{empty} +
