[[index]]
image::images/JDOx150.png[align="center"]
image::images/jdo_text.png[align="center"]
== JDO TEST

'''''

:_basedir: 
:_imagesdir: images/
:notoc:
:titlepage:
:grid: cols

=== Latest Official Releaseanchor:Latest_Official_Release[]

link:releases/release-3.1.cgi[JDO 3.1] image:images/dot_clear.png[image]
March 20, 2015

=== Previous Official Releasesanchor:Previous_Official_Releases[]

link:releases/release-3.1-rc1.cgi[JDO 3.1-rc1]
image:images/dot_clear.png[image] September 22, 2013

link:releases/release-3.0.1.cgi[JDO 3.0.1]
image:images/dot_clear.png[image] November 13, 2011

=== About JDO Releasesanchor:About_JDO_Releases[]

A release of JDO includes the JDO API and the Technology Compatibility
Kit (TCK). The TCK is available only in source form. The API project is
available as source and binary, and as raw jar files.

* The api project contains source to build jdo-api.jar. The jar file is
the only artifact needed for users who wish to compile their programs
using the JDO API. It can be downloaded automatically by maven and
placed into the local maven repository if you include the proper
dependency in your maven project definition. Use groupId javax.jdo,
artifactId jdo-api, version 3.0, and define your remote repository as
http://www.ibiblio.org/maven. Alternatively, it can be downloaded
manually and put into a location of your choice.
* The tck project contains the JDO Technology Compatibility Kit. The
source distribution is the only artifact needed to be downloaded by the
user.

All are available for download as source, but if you wish to run the TCK
you need only download the TCK project. The dependencies will be
automatically downloaded by maven as jar files.

For information on running the TCK, see link:tck.adoc[TCK]. If
downloading multiple source packages, extract them all into the same
directory. This will preserve the source dependencies among the
projects.

See link:svn.adoc[Source Code Version Control] for information about
downloading the latest source code for all of the JDO projects.

'''''

[[footer]]
Copyright Â© 2005-2015. All Rights Reserved.

'''''
