src/main/asciidoc/javadoc.adoc, before:

:_basedir: 
:_imagesdir: images/
:grid: cols
:general:

[[index]]

== Javadoc Formatsanchor:Javadoc_Formats[]

JDO Javadoc is available in two formats. You can browse the javadoc
online, or you can download it as a .zip file and unzip it to a local
directory.

=== JDO 3.2 javadocanchor:JDO_3.2_javadoc[]

JDO 3.2 is the current release of the Apache JDO implementation of
JSR-243.

link:api32/apidocs/index.html[Browse JDO 3.2 javadoc online]

link:api32/apidocs.zip[Download JDO 3.2 javadoc]

=== JDO 3.1 javadocanchor:JDO_3.1_javadoc[]

JDO 3.1 is the Apache JDO implementation of JSR-243.

link:api31/apidocs/index.html[Browse JDO 3.1 javadoc online]

link:api31/apidocs.zip[Download JDO 3.1 javadoc]

=== JDO 3.0 javadocanchor:JDO_3.0_javadoc[]

JDO 3.0 is the Apache JDO implementation of JSR-243.

link:api30/apidocs/index.html[Browse JDO 3.0 javadoc online]

link:api30/apidocs.zip[Download JDO 3.0 javadoc]

=== JDO 2.2 javadocanchor:JDO_2.2_javadoc[]

JDO 2.2 is the Maintenance Release 2 of the Apache JDO implementation of
JSR-243.

link:api22/apidocs/index.html[Browse JDO 2.2 javadoc online]

link:api22/apidocs.zip[Download JDO 2.2 javadoc]

=== JDO 2.1 javadocanchor:JDO_2.1_javadoc[]

JDO 2.1 is the Maintenance Release 1 of the Apache JDO implementation of
JSR-243.

link:api21/apidocs/index.html[Browse JDO 2.1 javadoc online]

link:api21/apidocs.zip[Download JDO 2.1 javadoc]

link:api21-legacy/apidocs/index.html[Browse JDO 2.1-legacy javadoc
online]

link:api21-legacy/apidocs.zip[Download JDO 2.1-legacy javadoc]

=== JDO 2.0 javadocanchor:JDO_2.0_javadoc[]

JDO 2.0 is the Apache JDO implementation of JSR-243.

link:api20/apidocs/index.html[Browse JDO 2.0 javadoc online]

link:api20/apidocs.zip[Download JDO 2.0 javadoc]

=== JDO 1.1 javadocanchor:JDO_1.1_javadoc[]

JDO 1.1 is the Apache JDO implementation of JSR-12.

link:api11/apidocs/index.html[Browse JDO 1.1 javadoc online]

link:api11/apidocs.zip[Download JDO 1.1 javadoc]

Commit message:

3.2.1 (#46)
* 3.2.1 Updates (without Javadoc)

* javadoc

* Update javadoc.adoc

src/main/asciidoc/javadoc.adoc, after:

:_basedir: 
:_imagesdir: images/
:grid: cols
:general:

[[index]]

== Javadoc Formatsanchor:Javadoc_Formats[]

JDO Javadoc is available in two formats. You can browse the javadoc
online, or you can download it as a .zip file and unzip it to a local
directory.

=== JDO 3.2.1 javadocanchor:JDO_3.2.1_javadoc[]

JDO 3.2.1 is the current release of the Apache JDO implementation of
JSR-243.

link:api321/apidocs/index.html[Browse JDO 3.2.1 javadoc online]

link:api321/apidocs.zip[Download JDO 3.2.1 javadoc]

=== JDO 3.2 javadocanchor:JDO_3.2_javadoc[]

JDO 3.2 is the current release of the Apache JDO implementation of
JSR-243.

link:api32/apidocs/index.html[Browse JDO 3.2 javadoc online]

link:api32/apidocs.zip[Download JDO 3.2 javadoc]

=== JDO 3.1 javadocanchor:JDO_3.1_javadoc[]

JDO 3.1 is the Apache JDO implementation of JSR-243.

link:api31/apidocs/index.html[Browse JDO 3.1 javadoc online]

link:api31/apidocs.zip[Download JDO 3.1 javadoc]

=== JDO 3.0 javadocanchor:JDO_3.0_javadoc[]

JDO 3.0 is the Apache JDO implementation of JSR-243.

link:api30/apidocs/index.html[Browse JDO 3.0 javadoc online]

link:api30/apidocs.zip[Download JDO 3.0 javadoc]

=== JDO 2.2 javadocanchor:JDO_2.2_javadoc[]

JDO 2.2 is the Maintenance Release 2 of the Apache JDO implementation of
JSR-243.

link:api22/apidocs/index.html[Browse JDO 2.2 javadoc online]

link:api22/apidocs.zip[Download JDO 2.2 javadoc]

=== JDO 2.1 javadocanchor:JDO_2.1_javadoc[]

JDO 2.1 is the Maintenance Release 1 of the Apache JDO implementation of
JSR-243.

link:api21/apidocs/index.html[Browse JDO 2.1 javadoc online]

link:api21/apidocs.zip[Download JDO 2.1 javadoc]

link:api21-legacy/apidocs/index.html[Browse JDO 2.1-legacy javadoc
online]

link:api21-legacy/apidocs.zip[Download JDO 2.1-legacy javadoc]

=== JDO 2.0 javadocanchor:JDO_2.0_javadoc[]

JDO 2.0 is the Apache JDO implementation of JSR-243.

link:api20/apidocs/index.html[Browse JDO 2.0 javadoc online]

link:api20/apidocs.zip[Download JDO 2.0 javadoc]

=== JDO 1.1 javadocanchor:JDO_1.1_javadoc[]

JDO 1.1 is the Apache JDO implementation of JSR-12.

link:api11/apidocs/index.html[Browse JDO 1.1 javadoc online]

link:api11/apidocs.zip[Download JDO 1.1 javadoc]
