src/main/asciidoc/pm.adoc, before:

:_basedir: 
:_imagesdir: images/
:grid: cols
:usage:

[[index]]

== Persistence Manageranchor:Persistence_Manager[]

Any JDO-enabled application will require at least one
_PersistenceManager_ (PM). This is obtained from the
link:pmf.html[PersistenceManagerFactory] for the datastore.

The simplest way of creating a _PersistenceManager_
link:api20/apidocs/javax/jdo/PersistenceManager.html[image:images/javadoc.png[image]]
is as follows

....
PersistenceManagerFactory pmf = JDOHelper.getPersistenceManagerFactory(props);
PersistenceManager pm = pmf.getPersistenceManager();
....

A _PersistenceManager_ is the key to all persistence operations in JDO.
With it you can persist, update, delete, and retrieve objects from the
datastore. A _PersistenceManager_ has a single transaction.

{empty} +


=== Persist Objectsanchor:Persist_Objects[]

To persist an object, the object must first be marked as persistable
using link:metadata.html[MetaData (XML/Annotations)]. Then you would
start the PM transaction, and use _makePersistent_ as follows

....
PersistenceManager pm = pmf.getPersistenceManager();
Transaction tx = pm.currentTransaction();
try
{
    // Start the transaction
    tx.begin();

    // Create the object to persist
    MyClass obj = new MyClass();

    // Persist it to the datastore
    pm.makePersistent(obj);

    // Commit the transaction, flushing the object to the datastore
    tx.commit();
}
catch (Exception e)
{
    ... handle exceptions
}
finally
{
    if (tx.isActive())
    {
        // Error occurred so rollback the transaction
        tx.rollback();
    }
    pm.close();
}
....

The _makePersistent_ method of *PersistenceManager* makes the object
persistent in the datastore, and updates the 'state' of the object from
_Transient_ (at the start) to _Hollow_ (after commit() of the
transaction).

When an object is persisted, if it has any other objects referenced from
that object they also will be made persistent. This is referred to as
*persistence-by-reachability*. The main benefit of this is that if you
have an object graph to persist, then you don't need to call
_makePersistent()_ on all objects, instead just using one that can be
used to find all of the others. *persistence-by-reachability* is also
run at the time of calling _commit()_ on the transaction. This has the
effect that if you had called _makePersistent()_ on an object and that
had persisted another object, and before commit you had removed the
relation to this other object, then at _commit()_ the reachability
algorithm will find that this other object is no longer reachable and
will remove it from persistence.

{empty} +


=== Retrieve Objectsanchor:Retrieve_Objects[]

So we've made some of our objects persistent, and now we want to
retrieve them in our application. Here's one way of retrieving objects
of a particular type.

....
tx = pm.currentTransaction();
try
{
    tx.begin();

    Extent e = pm.getExtent(mydomain.MyClass.class, true);
    Iterator iter=e.iterator();
    while (iter.hasNext())
    {
        MyClass my_obj=(MyClass)iter.next();
        ...
    }

    tx.commit();
}
catch (Exception e)
{
    if (tx.isActive())
    {
        tx.rollback();
    }
}
....

The *Extent* interface is one of the ways to retrieve your objects. The
others use the *Query* interface, allowing more precise filtering over
the objects returned.

{empty} +


=== Update Objectsanchor:Update_Objects[]

To update an object we firstly retrieve it, as above, and then we call
any of its mutator methods. For example

....
tx = pm.currentTransaction();
try
{
    tx.begin();

    Extent e = pm.getExtent(mydomain.MyClass.class, true);
    Iterator iter=e.iterator();
    while (iter.hasNext())
    {
        MyClass my_obj=(MyClass)iter.next();
        my_obj.setValue(25.0); // Change the value
        ...
    }

    tx.commit();
}
catch (Exception e)
{
    if (tx.isActive())
    {
        tx.rollback();
    }
}
....

When _setValue()_ is called on the persistent object this change is
intercepted by JDO and the value change will be automatically sent to
the datastore ... transparently!

{empty} +


=== Delete Objectsanchor:Delete_Objects[]

So we can persist objects, and retrieve them. Now we want to remove one
from persistence.

....
try
{
    tx = pm.currentTransaction();
    tx.begin();

    ... (code to retrieve object in question) ...

    pm.deletePersistent(my_obj);

    tx.commit();
}
catch (Exception e)
{
    if (tx.isActive())
    {
        tx.rollback();
    }
}
....

{empty} +


=== Making an object transientanchor:Making_an_object_transient[]

As we have seen in the link:state_transition.html[JDO States guide], an
object can have many possible states. When we want to take an object and
work on it, but removing its identity we can make it *transient*. This
means that it will retain the values of its fields, yet will no longer
be associated with the object in the datastore. We do this as follows

....
try
{
    tx = pm.currentTransaction();
    tx.begin();

    ... (code to retrieve object in question) ...

    pm.makeTransient(my_obj);

    tx.commit();
}
catch (Exception e)
{
    if (tx.isActive())
    {
        tx.rollback();
    }
}

... (code to work on "my_obj")
....

Commit message:

Update link references from link:<name>.html to xref:<name>.adoc

src/main/asciidoc/pm.adoc, after:

:_basedir: 
:_imagesdir: images/
:grid: cols
:usage:

[[index]]

== Persistence Manageranchor:Persistence_Manager[]

Any JDO-enabled application will require at least one
_PersistenceManager_ (PM). This is obtained from the
xref:pmf.adoc[PersistenceManagerFactory] for the datastore.

The simplest way of creating a _PersistenceManager_
link:api20/apidocs/javax/jdo/PersistenceManager.html[image:images/javadoc.png[image]]
is as follows

....
PersistenceManagerFactory pmf = JDOHelper.getPersistenceManagerFactory(props);
PersistenceManager pm = pmf.getPersistenceManager();
....

A _PersistenceManager_ is the key to all persistence operations in JDO.
With it you can persist, update, delete, and retrieve objects from the
datastore. A _PersistenceManager_ has a single transaction.

{empty} +


=== Persist Objectsanchor:Persist_Objects[]

To persist an object, the object must first be marked as persistable
using xref:metadata.adoc[MetaData (XML/Annotations)]. Then you would
start the PM transaction, and use _makePersistent_ as follows

....
PersistenceManager pm = pmf.getPersistenceManager();
Transaction tx = pm.currentTransaction();
try
{
    // Start the transaction
    tx.begin();

    // Create the object to persist
    MyClass obj = new MyClass();

    // Persist it to the datastore
    pm.makePersistent(obj);

    // Commit the transaction, flushing the object to the datastore
    tx.commit();
}
catch (Exception e)
{
    ... handle exceptions
}
finally
{
    if (tx.isActive())
    {
        // Error occurred so rollback the transaction
        tx.rollback();
    }
    pm.close();
}
....

The _makePersistent_ method of *PersistenceManager* makes the object
persistent in the datastore, and updates the 'state' of the object from
_Transient_ (at the start) to _Hollow_ (after commit() of the
transaction).

When an object is persisted, if it has any other objects referenced from
that object they also will be made persistent. This is referred to as
*persistence-by-reachability*. The main benefit of this is that if you
have an object graph to persist, then you don't need to call
_makePersistent()_ on all objects, instead just using one that can be
used to find all of the others. *persistence-by-reachability* is also
run at the time of calling _commit()_ on the transaction. This has the
effect that if you had called _makePersistent()_ on an object and that
had persisted another object, and before commit you had removed the
relation to this other object, then at _commit()_ the reachability
algorithm will find that this other object is no longer reachable and
will remove it from persistence.

{empty} +


=== Retrieve Objectsanchor:Retrieve_Objects[]

So we've made some of our objects persistent, and now we want to
retrieve them in our application. Here's one way of retrieving objects
of a particular type.

....
tx = pm.currentTransaction();
try
{
    tx.begin();

    Extent e = pm.getExtent(mydomain.MyClass.class, true);
    Iterator iter=e.iterator();
    while (iter.hasNext())
    {
        MyClass my_obj=(MyClass)iter.next();
        ...
    }

    tx.commit();
}
catch (Exception e)
{
    if (tx.isActive())
    {
        tx.rollback();
    }
}
....

The *Extent* interface is one of the ways to retrieve your objects. The
others use the *Query* interface, allowing more precise filtering over
the objects returned.

{empty} +


=== Update Objectsanchor:Update_Objects[]

To update an object we firstly retrieve it, as above, and then we call
any of its mutator methods. For example

....
tx = pm.currentTransaction();
try
{
    tx.begin();

    Extent e = pm.getExtent(mydomain.MyClass.class, true);
    Iterator iter=e.iterator();
    while (iter.hasNext())
    {
        MyClass my_obj=(MyClass)iter.next();
        my_obj.setValue(25.0); // Change the value
        ...
    }

    tx.commit();
}
catch (Exception e)
{
    if (tx.isActive())
    {
        tx.rollback();
    }
}
....

When _setValue()_ is called on the persistent object this change is
intercepted by JDO and the value change will be automatically sent to
the datastore ... transparently!

{empty} +


=== Delete Objectsanchor:Delete_Objects[]

So we can persist objects, and retrieve them. Now we want to remove one
from persistence.

....
try
{
    tx = pm.currentTransaction();
    tx.begin();

    ... (code to retrieve object in question) ...

    pm.deletePersistent(my_obj);

    tx.commit();
}
catch (Exception e)
{
    if (tx.isActive())
    {
        tx.rollback();
    }
}
....

{empty} +


=== Making an object transientanchor:Making_an_object_transient[]

As we have seen in the xref:state_transition.adoc[JDO States guide], an
object can have many possible states. When we want to take an object and
work on it, but removing its identity we can make it *transient*. This
means that it will retain the values of its fields, yet will no longer
be associated with the object in the datastore. We do this as follows

....
try
{
    tx = pm.currentTransaction();
    tx.begin();

    ... (code to retrieve object in question) ...

    pm.makeTransient(my_obj);

    tx.commit();
}
catch (Exception e)
{
    if (tx.isActive())
    {
        tx.rollback();
    }
}

... (code to work on "my_obj")
....
