[[index]]
image::images/JDOx150.png[align="center"]
image::images/jdo_text.png[align="center"]
== JDO TEST

'''''

:_basedir: 
:_imagesdir: images/
:notoc:
:titlepage:
:grid: cols

=== Persistence Manager Factoryanchor:Persistence_Manager_Factory[]

Any JDO-enabled application will require at least one
_PersistenceManagerFactory_. Typically applications create one per
datastore being utilised. A _PersistenceManagerFactory_ provides access
to __PersistenceManager__s which allow objects to be persisted, and
retrieved. The _PersistenceManagerFactory_ can be configured to provide
particular behaviour.

The simplest way of creating a _PersistenceManagerFactory_
link:api20/apidocs/javax/jdo/PersistenceManagerFactory.adoc[image:images/javadoc.png[image]]
is as follows

....
Properties properties = new Properties();
properties.setProperty("javax.jdo.PersistenceManagerFactoryClass",
                "{my_implementation_pmf_class}");
properties.setProperty("javax.jdo.option.ConnectionDriverName","com.mysql.jdbc.Driver");
properties.setProperty("javax.jdo.option.ConnectionURL","jdbc:mysql://localhost/myDB");
properties.setProperty("javax.jdo.option.ConnectionUserName","login");
properties.setProperty("javax.jdo.option.ConnectionPassword","password");
PersistenceManagerFactory pmf = JDOHelper.getPersistenceManagerFactory(properties);
....

A slight variation on this, is to use a file ("jdo.properties" for
example) to specify these properties like this

....
javax.jdo.PersistenceManagerFactoryClass={my_implementation_pmf_class}
javax.jdo.option.ConnectionDriverName=com.mysql.jdbc.Driver
javax.jdo.option.ConnectionURL=jdbc:mysql://localhost/myDB
javax.jdo.option.ConnectionUserName=login
javax.jdo.option.ConnectionPassword=password
....

and then to create the _PersistenceManagerFactory_ using this file

....
PersistenceManagerFactory pmf = JDOHelper.getPersistenceManagerFactory("jdo.properties");
....

A final alternative would be to call
_JDOHelper.getPersistenceManagerFactory(jndiLocation, context);_, hence
accessing the properties via JNDI.

Whichever way we wish to obtain the _PersistenceManagerFactory_ we have
defined a series of properties to give the behaviour of the
_PersistenceManagerFactory_. The first property specifies to use PMF of
the implementation required to be used, and the following 4 properties
define the datastore that it should connect to.

{empty} +


==== Standard JDO Propertiesanchor:Standard_JDO_Properties[]

*javax.jdo.PersistenceManagerFactoryClass*

Description

The name of the PersistenceManager implementation

{empty} +


*javax.jdo.option.ConnectionFactory*

Description

Instance of a connection factory. For RBDMS, it must be an instance of
javax.sql.DataSource. *This is for a transactional DataSource*

{empty} +


*javax.jdo.option.ConnectionFactory2*

Description

Instance of a connection factory. For RBDMS, it must be an instance of
javax.sql.DataSource. *This is for a non-transactional DataSource*

{empty} +


*javax.jdo.option.ConnectionFactoryName*

Description

The JNDI name for a connection factory. For RBDMS, it must be a JNDI
name that points to a javax.sql.DataSource object. *This is for a
transactional DataSource*

{empty} +


*javax.jdo.option.ConnectionFactory2Name*

Description

The JNDI name for a connection factory. For RBDMS, it must be a JNDI
name that points to a javax.sql.DataSource object. *This is for a
non-transactional DataSource*

{empty} +


*javax.jdo.option.ConnectionDriverName*

Description

The name of the driver to use for the DB

{empty} +


*javax.jdo.option.ConnectionDriverURL*

Description

URL specifying the datastore to use for persistence

{empty} +


*javax.jdo.option.ConnectionUserName*

Description

Username to use for connecting to the DB

{empty} +


*javax.jdo.option.ConnectionPassword*

Description

Password to use for connecting to the DB

{empty} +


*javax.jdo.option.IgnoreCache*

Description

Whether to ignore the cache for queries

Range of Values

true | false

{empty} +


*javax.jdo.option.Multithreaded*

Description

Whether to run the PersistenceManager multithreaded

Range of Values

true | false

{empty} +


*javax.jdo.option.NontransactionalRead*

Description

Whether to allow nontransactional reads

Range of Values

true | false

{empty} +


*javax.jdo.option.NontransactionalWrite*

Description

Whether to allow nontransactional writes

Range of Values

true | false

{empty} +


*javax.jdo.option.Optimistic*

Description

Whether to use link:transactions.adoc[Optimistic transactions]

Range of Values

true | false

{empty} +


*javax.jdo.option.RetainValues*

Description

Whether to suppress the clearing of values from persistent instances on
transaction completion

Range of Values

true | false

{empty} +


*javax.jdo.option.RestoreValues*

Description

Whether persistent object have transactional field values restored when
transaction rollback occurs.

Range of Values

true | false

{empty} +


*javax.jdo.option.Mapping*

Description

Name for the ORM MetaData mapping files to use with this PMF. For
example if this is set to "mysql" then the implementation looks for
MetaData mapping files called "\{classname}-mysql.orm" or
"package-mysql.orm". If this is not specified then the JDO
implementation assumes that all is specified in the JDO MetaData file.
_ORM datastores only_

{empty} +


*javax.jdo.mapping.Catalog*

Description

Name of the catalog to use by default for all classes persisted using
this PMF. This can be overridden in the MetaData where required, and is
optional. JPOX will prefix all table names with this catalog name if the
RDBMS supports specification of catalog names in DDL. _ORM datastores
only_

{empty} +


*javax.jdo.mapping.Schema*

Description

Name of the schema to use by default for all classes persisted using
this PMF. This can be overridden in the MetaData where required, and is
optional. JPOX will prefix all table names with this schema name if the
RDBMS supports specification of schema names in DDL. _ORM datastores
only_

{empty} +


*javax.jdo.option.DetachAllOnCommit*

Description

Allows the user to select that when a transaction is committed all
objects enlisted in that transaction will be automatically detached.

Range of Values

true | *false*

{empty} +


*javax.jdo.option.CopyOnAttach*

Description

Whether, when attaching a detached object, we create an attached copy or
simply migrate the detached object to attached state. This is from JDO
2.1

Range of Values

*true* | false

{empty} +


*javax.jdo.option.TransactionType*

Description

Type of transaction to use. If running under J2SE the default is
RESOURCE_LOCAL, and if running under J2EE the default is JTA.

Range of Values

RESOURCE_LOCAL | JTA

{empty} +


*javax.jdo.option.PersistenceUnitName*

Description

Name of the "persistence-unit" to use with this PMF. This borrows the
"persistence-unit" concept from JPA for use with JDO 2.1.

{empty} +


*javax.jdo.option.ServerTimeZoneID*

Description

Id of the TimeZone under which the datastore server is running. If this
is not specified or is set to null it is assumed that the datastore
server is running in the same timezone as the JVM under which the
implementation is running.

{empty} +


*javax.jdo.option.Name*

Description

Name of the PMF. This is for use with "named PMF" functionality in JDO
2.1

{empty} +


*javax.jdo.option.ReadOnly*

Description

Whether this datastore should be treated as read only. Added in JDO 2.2

Range of Values

true | *false*

{empty} +


*javax.jdo.option.TransactionIsolationLevel*

Description

Isolation level to use for connections in the current transaction. Added
in JDO 2.2

Range of Values

none | read-committed | read-uncommitted | repeatable-read | snapshot |
serializable

{empty} +

{empty} +


'''''

[[footer]]
Copyright Â© 2005-2015. All Rights Reserved.

'''''
